- [CSS2 1998 Birthday](https://twitter.com/WebDesignMuseum/status/1657002684686188548?s=20)
  - CSS3 research
    - when did it start? what was in it? we need to bisect it with our card list
    - earliest snapshot https://www.w3.org/TR/css-2010/ 
- Consider Trello instead of physical card sort
  - Maybe not Trello per se, but something easier to work with than Trello (actual card sorting UX tool)
  - UXMetrics looks nice
  - Original pool of CSS features should be unsorted at the start
  - Other options:
    - https://www.optimalworkshop.com/optimalsort
    - https://maze.co/features/card-sorting
    - https://github.com/orgs/CSS-Next/projects/1/views/2 
- CSS Survey:
  - probably not able to match card sorting 
  - but a link to the card sort is a good option
- Card sort
  - Max number to sort (40)
  - CSS4/Confident Stable or “CSS5/Future”
  - Task: "What items do you feel are in your definition of CSS4?"
    - Here's 40 cards, if you think they're stable enough or in a mental category of not CSS3 but also not CSSfuture, put them into the column
- UX Writing
  - need intro text, context text, and verbiage overall for articulating what this is and why
  - which of these APIs do you feel safe using? 
  - which incremental updated specs do you feel are in a next bucket category of CSS?
  - need a document on verbiage ideas so we can align on how to articulate the prompt to the test users.
  - leaving it vague may get better results
  - it's a vibe check / feeling
  - CSS4 stable enough to use modules VS CSS4 is what you consider next gen CSS features VS valuable enough to teach it
  - "do you think everyone should know this?" this would make the card sort binary, things are in or out of this bucket.
  - "if you're teaching CSS, would you include this in your curriculum"? 
  - maybe we include CSS3 already completed. so the test user can see it as a reference?
  - should know (what if someone doesnt think they should, do they feel bad now?) vs should learn (it all kinda falls into this) vs track for future
  - Direction for categories:
    - “The Average CSS Developer” (de-personalize)
    - Already know / use (in your repertoire)
    - Interested in learning to use soon (more advanced/early)
    - Never heard of it / too early to learn / use

- Outreach
How do we get a wide demographic? I.e. folks not on social media?
Capture some demographic data
Una/Adam can reach out to GDG groups to make sure typically less-represented groups get this survey
how do we get a broad pool of participants?
did anyone research why the css survey didnt reach other demographics?
do we need multi-lingual cards?
do we need analytics about demographics so we can have that information in the end when determining the validity and reach of the sort?
reach out in regions specifically to share
