## Meeting Notes August 21, 2023

### Notes
- AIs from last time:
  - Amit to make card sort draggable app (still WIP, made some progress)
  - Each of us comes up with a definition
- Definitions Discussion #86
  - Need to go back to dates eventually at some point, back to immutable definition
  - Definition should be fairly short
  - Include dates or not?
    - More subjective to not
    - More clear definition with
    - Ok with dates when definition leaves room for subjectiveness
- Will someone who doesn’t see a use case for a specific feature say its important to them?
  - Some CSS more universal than other features
- Folks won’t look up every date, still room for subjectiveness
- “Categorize CSS in a way that's more consumable”
    - Awareness is key
- Why survey?
    - Do user research
    - Help us make borderline decisions and test our hypothesis
- Eventual goal: “Make list of CSS features everyone should be aware of” - PPK
- Definitions from Quentin, adjusted by Una, workshopped by team:

**RESOLVED:**
- CSS3 (~2009-2012)
  - Level 3 CSS specs as defined by the CSSWG.
- CSS4 (~2013-2018)
  - Essential features that were not part of CSS3 but are already a fundamental part of CSS.
- CSS5 (~2019-2024)
  - Newer features whose adoption is steadily growing.
- CSS6 (~2024+)
  - Early-stage features that are planned for future CSS.

Note: Likely won't include CSS6 in survey, but will in initial materials. Will have "I don't know this feature" for the survey instead

## Action items
- Come with pre-sorts for next meeting based on this meetings definition
- Una won’t be in next meeting, PPK will chair
