Group: https://www.w3.org/community/css4/
Issue: https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/4770

What this is and what it isn't
* Unofficial group (community initiative) to help the developer community make sense of CSS
* Not a standards body

Agenda:
* Intro to meeting (what this is) [5min]
* Introductions (depending on group size) [10 min]
* Process: Raise hands to “add to cue”, can someone minute? I’ll “chair” [5min]
* Plan of action:
    * What this is and what it isn’t:
        * Define group goals [10min]
        * Define non-goals [10min]
    * Come up with a list of things we need to figure out [15min]
        * CSS4? CSS5 too? Levels / naming
        * How to define and group items (spec levels? Individual APIs?)
        * Do we want to include everything or some things?
        * Rubric for groupings
    * How folks want to work (IRC? Discord? When meetings?) [5min]

Kickoff Meetings Nov 1, 2022
Session I: Una Kravets, PPK, Josh Lindquist, Hui Jing Chen, Calum Williams, Brenda Storer, Rachel Andrew, Juhani Kumara, David Meek

Why?
* Folks understand the marketing of “CSS3” – its in resumes and job board, folks learn to this and have trouble categorizing “modern CSS” beyond it
* Most people (folks not well versed in CSS) need help understanding what they should learn
What is this group for you / what is it not?
* PPK: a group to decide how we should bring CSS4 to the wider world. Maybe not the most important issue to decide what CSS4 is, but helping folks decide it for themselves and be something they should learn
* Josh Lindquist: trepidation over the actual term “CSS4”  but am interested in deciding which things are the biggest priorities, as folks associate CSS3 with features that were in every browser 10 years ago. We can put together some kind of collection (whether its CSS4 or something else)
* Juhani: Actual naming / strategy - the thing that interests me about this is if we get some kind of consensus about this, is CSS just going to have this issue in the future? I’d be interested in discussing some kind of consistent plan about the next marketable version of CSS being defined. I.e. ECMAScript w/their numeric versioning to market their features
* Hui Jing: Remembers watching Rachel’s talk at CSS Day and how there are priorities of CSS. Something like that which doesn’t set in stone a phrase like “CSS4” which might be controversial but somethign that convinces folks that CSS did not stop at CSS3. What is the best way to show the broader web development community that CSS is constantly moving forward. Premise behind it - we’re all on the same page 
* Brenda: Thinking about the broader picture. Every team I go on, ppl don’t know how fast browsers pick up on things and Grid is too new to use. How to communicate new feature and which are implemented and how to use fallbacks. Making new things more accessible so people aren’t using the old APIs, improve reputation of CSS
* Callum: +1 to everyone, main thing I would drive is looking at how this gets managed moving forwards. This needs to be a framework that continues. State Of CSS Survey was alarming how many new features coming into the language. I didn’t realize how far along the pipeline they were and they would increase. Needs to be repeatable every X number of big features
* Rachel: Similar the comment on Github, what they talk about is what is safe to use, they do not mean an arbitrary collection of features, they want to know the features work with the browsers they have committed to support, what we are seeing is people being unable to keep up with the pace of new features, there are people who are not sure about the state of new CSS and another group of people who are stressed about being not sure what they need to learn. Developers are more concerned with which CSS is safe to use, CSS3 had nothing to do with browser support, but that’s what most people are concerned about. This is difficult to just describe some of this when we have only partial implementation of a lot of CSS, e.g. gap in Flexbox etc. There’s a disconnect between what web developers want, and what the CSSWG talk about.
* David: A lot of developers do get stuck in old ways (Javascript-solutions for UI problems), but there are many new tools (in terms of CSS) we currently have they could use instead, the aspect of marketing CSS.
* Una: The concept constantly heard within the community. We’ve had a large set of features that have landed over the last 10 years that folks are unaware they can reliably use. Now, we are landing these new features, that could be the next level of things they could learn, but people are still unaware their idea of the previous set of features is now stable and safe. Be it levels or grouping of specifications, or browser support, ultimately it’s important to help developers better understand the progression of the state of technology. How do we help them do this? Creating these delineations can help people understand between what is stable and safe for use, and what are those things that are coming down the pipeline.
* PPK: Maybe we could define CSS4 as the stuff which browsers right now. What about CSS5? That would be things that could work in browsers in a couple of years, like things that don’t fully work in browsers yet. Then move on each level as CSS continues to progress.
* Una: Reliable is not only what things that work in browsers in 2022, but rather further far back to even 2016, because most companies have a range of browser versions they need to support. The amount of stuff that has landed since CSS3, the past 10 years, ranges between very stable and partial implementation (i.e. grid vs. cascade layers likely CSS5(?)+)
* Callum: One of the big events that occurred is Internet Explorer dropping off, a lot of companies are now dropping IE10/11, resulting in a big shift of developer’s mindset behind what CSS can or cannot be used safely. The second thing is still seeing CSS3 on resumes and job applications. Whatever terminology gets used, these tend to stick around for a very long time, because hiring managers will take these words and put them in blog posts and job specifications, and these continued to get talked about years and years later.
* Joshua: Are people really asking for CSS3 on job applications? Yes, see Linkedin for proof. Interested in not only helping developers with it, but the broader spectrum of folks like hiring managers understand what is relevant with the times. Like Rachel said, this is a lot of work to figure out what that list of specifications ought to be. It has to be based on near 100% browser support on specific properties, but the purpose of this group should be tackling the difficult task of sorting through all the features and coming up with a practical selection of CSS that should go into this list. Feels a bit like the last 10 years culmulated in Grid.
* Juhani: Agree that this is really hard. We have to have some kind of practical aspect to help the struggling developer understand what is currently possible. But that is also a dangerous thought for defining what CSS4 should be. Because whatever we come up with is going to be perceived as the things you should know next. If we strictly tie that to browser support, then it’s going to be a list of 10 years worth of CSS features on that list. Other issues include how do we decide what constitutes browser support? What about print-related CSS, for example? Not keen on strictly using browser support only.
* David: On the browser support issue. Most of us probably have PTSD from IE support days. Focusing on the worst browser tends to be a phenomenon (even in the face of more than 90% support on Caniuse, for example). How do we manage the grey area of defining what is stable and what is not? Would like to see some focus on that.
* Brenda: Thinking about how to get people excited about things to encourage adoption. Help people figure out what is right for them to start using. What was successful about CSS3? Do people really know what is in CSS3 or do people just think that was the latest? And what was unsuccessful about it?
* Una: CSS3 was a big release of many critical features. There was a lot of stuff that landed and a lot of articles that came out. ES6 had this moment as well. These were notable opportunities for developers to learn new stuff. One of things out of this effort is to have a shorthand of features for somebody to understand what they need to know, and for hiring managers to understand what it means to keep up with technology.
* Callum: Back in the day, CSS3’s successful marketing was the ability to Google the team and figure out what hiring managers were looking out for. Now this no longer works anymore. The fact that CSS3 just carried on, not having a successor, might be one of the things CSS3 did not do well. Using gap as an example, it was a feature that was introduced in Grid, then later brought into Flexbox later. This makes it hard to define “support”.
* Hui Jing: Everyone has the same concern in terms of the average developer still needs this sort of labeling. One thing I was wondering is the manner in which people approach CSS and things stick. CSS3 is still being used as a phrase and people tend to get set in their ways, and I remember Jen and Rachel talking about this recently – the manner in which we write CSS needs to be updated. There are things such as feature queries. Are we even able to break people out of the rigid, traditional way people think about CSS. How do we break people out of this mold of the old way of doing things? How did people switch from using tables to using CSS?
* Juhani: Thinking about Brenda’s question about what was successful about CSS3. What made people switch perspectives. A key feature was media queries. CSS3, mobile first, responsive design, these 3 things were grouped together in a way. That was a significant factor is helping people switch perspectives. There was something about this that encouraged people to use this “new” way of writing CSS.
* Una: Newer modalities: user-preferences, etc. Having a bigger grouping than CSS3 would activate people to build with new capabilities
* Joshua: Define what CSS3 was. What about CSS modules that went through multiple revisions (e.g. Multicolumn specification)? Getting people to accept that websites do not all have to look the same, it is very hard to breakthrough that mindset. People have a tendency to force something to look the way they want it on a viewport that is 200px smaller than their Photoshop mockup.
* PPK: Could push CSS4 as the way to let people understand their website does not have to look the same across all the devices. CSS3’s success is that it was a buzzword. Question, say we create CSS4 and tell people about it, would people think that they need an air-tight definition of what CSS4 is? Or would something more vague and up for interpretation be sufficient?
* Una: We do need to decide that. Versioning for feature sets could be an option. Not going to expand CSS4, rather add new levels as more features come along. In terms of definitions, it would be good to have a clear rubric. Things like interop look at browser support and not just specifications.
* Callum: Saw a website that was built with floats, and seeing what was possible allowed us to break out of table layout. For CSS, the fact that it is visual is a double-edged sword. Border radius and animations brought eye-candy effect with it, when designers and developers saw it themselves. ES6 changed the way we wrote code, but now they changed to an annual release, the features that come out are rather niche. Similarly, if you look at the latest colour-related advances, it’s not as mainstream and adoption would not be as significant. Having big features that make a splash and encourage people to actually learn these new things, versus fatiguing people with constant new annual releases.
* Brenda: We had to move from tables to floats, there was no choice because we wanted responsive. But right now, we don’t have that major shift to push people to adopt new CSS.
* Una: Almost disagree with that. There’s a lot that has changed, there is a new entry point to enable responsive design. We never had user preferences before, we never had logical properties before, nor container queries. The architecture is changing too, there was never a way to remodel the cascade (with layers). The new things that are landing last year, this year and next, are redefining how we write CSS. If teams are not aware, it would cause issues across the company when some people are using the new things while others are not.
* Brenda: The business need is less significant, it seems. Companies do not have that same sense of urgency that they did back then during the shift to mobile.
* Una: Decision makers are most probably not aware. There are folks across the board who are thinking about how to define stability. 
    * https://www.w3.org/community/webdx/
    * https://github.com/web-platform-dx/feature-set/blob/main/towards-features.md


Session 2: Una Kravets, Todd Libby, Adam Argyle, Joshua Lindquist
* Todd – senior accessibility engineer, intersection of a11y and CSS
* Josh – front-end developer, friends and colleagues don’t have time to keep up with new CSS changes (ie. don’t have time to learn flex and what it is/does). There’s a need to show people what’s out there
* Adam – has a history of teaching CSS, esp. When CSS3 was peaking and we had tools to empower folks (i.e. Bootstrap). The logo for CSS3 now the logo for CSS still
    * Do we need a new logo for CSS?
    * Feel like we’re on CSS5, we’re late to the boat to label it, so its a bit of catch up. Would like to attack CSS5
    * ES4 and others helped you learn the new versions of JS. One file looks different but accomplishes the same things
    * Important for educators to learn generations/chunks of styling. Helping educators and team leads
* Goals and nongoals
    * Adam: I want to see a list of features (CSS3 features starts and ends here, CSS4 features list, ++)
        * CSS4: logical flow, adaptive styles, custom properties
        * CSS5: newer things like container queries
    * Una: + to css4 and css5. css4 was 4-5 years ago (logical flow, user media, grid)
        * next gen css (not just about browser stability)
            * I.e. cascade layers has wide browser support but is new concept/next gen styling
            * @scope
            * nesting   
    * Josh: didn’t realize a lot of prefers-color-scheme is MQ-level-5 not 4. So how do we determine the cutoff? We’d have to repeat this. What happens when we figure out 4, then we have to figure out 5, then what?
    * Una: Right now we’re pushing past what folks should know as stable into next gen CSS and people aren’t caught up with what was stable 5 years ago
    * Josh: When you have big key features of each version instead of yearly updates (yearly updates isn’t marketable, doesn’t show you what you need to learn). All those new color spaces are cool but they don’t change the way you build like some of the bigger features like container queries do
        * No predictable cadence of these large feature launches
    * Adam: Shared some demos to show you how much CSS has changed
        * @scope and @layer together https://codepen.io/argyleink/pen/rNvoWNP 
        * nesting and @scope together https://codepen.io/argyleink/pen/XWYbxRO/56da71e2aee543b7abb1aec7178e1227 
    * Josh: Even me trying to keep up with it, I know immediately I’m missing new things. I reference layout things I’ve focused on perfecting the past few years but I know animations is not something I’ve perfected, and scroll-snapping, etc. How do we package it in a way to help people keep up with it?
    * Adam: Current numbering of specs is a great way to micromanage these, and helpful to working groups but its helpful for others to see these bigger labels. I.e. folks might identify gaps in their knowledge (i’m a CSS3 developer but I’d like to be a CSS4 developer). ES-levels help folks know they’re up-to-date or are covered by levels of support. Help people make decisions day-to-day on how they’re going to learn or what tools they’re going to use
    * Josh: Recruitment is a big thing. Ridiculous number of job listings that say CSS3 on them. They can go into the position confident they know CSS3 but they haven’t learned anything new in 10 years. Recruiters also don’t know they should look for something else or know those skills aren’t up to date.
    * Adam: Almost a joke at this point to see CSS3 on job listings at this point
    * Josh: But there are thousands of them (saw 5000+ posts on this via a search). Was browsing the web and things are still advertised as CSS3
    * Adam: What does CSS3 even mean if we don’t have a CSS4?
    * What is CSS3?
        * Josh: The easy way to define it is “all the modules broken into level 3” - hopefully its all supported at this point. Rachel mentioned multicol-level-1 is not a level-3 spec but was around in the same era. Went from WD to CR and back now. Is it 3 or 4 or 5?
        * Una: this where we need to decide where to place things. it's not a new concept to use features and not spec levels to do this placement, because the interop group is focusing on features. feature assessment is a way around it. like @container, it's partially implemented.
            * this browser or feature capabiliities as cutoffs? like grid enabled a new way to code layout. this almost transcends the browser stability and is focused on generations of capabilities. so many ways to cut the cake.
        * josh: browser support needs ot be a big factor. good counter args that it shouldnt be the only factor, which i agree. if something is only safari and not sure everywhere else, dont know if that's 4. 
        * una: css4 ended in 2018. nothing that's recent is css4. 
        * josh: most of this stuff is supported. i also mention we should look at property value pairs, instead of the whole spec.
        * una: think of this as capabilities for this reason: logical properties is a value. but there's aslo properties that are aligned with it, margin-inline-start. there's different segmentations and capabilities is a better framing
        * Todd: Goals for me would be the impact CSS may have on a11y and the potential impact CSS may have as well. I have a lot of catching up to do with advancements in CSS. 
        * Adam: Logical properties are  very much an a11y feature. Geographically relevant documentation for you. Also: prefers-contrast MQ. Might be good to riff on this separately (a11y-impacting CSS features)
        * Josh: opposite concerns: you can completely destroy a11y of page with flexbox and grid
        * una: here's focus areas this set of features solves: a11y, i18n, user customization. this aligns with the greater goal of the community and web platform, but not necessarily what we'd want to do in this group.
        * Josh: would us defining the collection of features, what is the next step in terms of getting it out to people?
        * una: wanna say 2 things: defining will improve i18n and a11ty / core tenets, they'll be more aware. css3 doesnt have any features that really drive these things. then, unofficial grouping we talk about and focus a narrative of the web about. see usage increase as we saturate the community with the grouping.
        * Adam: Yep see this as a big marketing thing. CSS3 almost had its own legs and trickled its way down into the depths of a recruiter email. This is a term that would stand on its own. Prob needs its own logo. Unites educators and recruiters. New content around CSS4-related content
        * una: we have learn css, but we need to update things like cascade layers that really change the fundamentals. there's no new way to do this outsid eof css3, you wouldnt know it's new.
        * josh: i had trepdations about the name, some feeling it was the only things to call it. css2022 just becomes an annual thing that's not a marketing push. but css4 could be confusing since it's not official, like css3 is semi-official. how do we get around it or not worry about it, it's more important to get it out there.
        * una: css3 was official from the wg, and i do othink the decision to move to individual modules added confusion, and now we seek to mitigate. in terms of css community, it creates risk not having a guiding mechanism. that being said, i dont like the naming of css2022, it doesnt fix the problem. listing features isnt as strong as listing capabilities. 
            * container queries only landed in 2 browsers and is partially implemented. not as helpful as a generation of new capapbilies: layout, next-gen responsive.
            * naming.. versioning +1 to css with a  new logo, or something completely different. css dragonfly..! no?
        * todd: naming things is hard. 
        * Adam: feels like the name has to be CSS4 because that’s what everyone’s expecting. Can’t break the pattern or will add confusion
        * Todd: They wanted to name the next generation of a11y to be “silver” instead of “wcag3”
        * una: i wouldnt know that silver is "next". consistency is important.
        * todd: i agree. i think css4 that's a logical step, the more i think about it. 
        * una: i just dont want conflicts with csswg. doesnt need to be official. not a module label, it's a group of apis that is community driven. it helsp the community talk about the ecosystem changes. 
        * josh: jenn said in the original issue, it's not official, but it's still a narrow path we need to walk to keep everyone happy.
        * una: i want ot move on to talk about things we need to figure out:
    * What do we need to figure out?
        * Adam: I want to see a spreadsheet. Or even better, someone builds a drag and drop app and users decide where things go. Use that information to decide what fits into which bucket. Need to get on a list and start moving things between lists. Capabilities is a good way to do that. Can start to guide this grouping once we have something in our hands to move around.
        * una: i worry about a big list, it's a big list. it's 40 apis and that's one year. capabilities it'd be fewer things, they'd be bucketed, grid/flex/layout. i dunno, if we talk broadly, do we have to do the work that actually  have to segment out each little detail. i worry about relying on community, there's so much.
        * josh: it's coolt o pput something out, even in limited capacity, not some css big survey. i understand the capabilities, but we gotta be careful not to make the buckets too big. subgrid for example, it's not css4 grid. can you just "call it grid". there's some nuance in the big buckets. 
        * una: how are we going to level things, or other things we havent discussed?
        * todd: how we think about how we can educate people on using css and minimalizing use of aria on the web. been auditing now for 2 years and it's part of the reason i have gray hair. i see aria, and it could be done with css. especially hiding things. 
        * una: it's an interesting topic area, something we talk about in open ui and the wg, but not sure if it's in this conversation exactly, but we are seeing how people are using aria. 
        * Adam: “right” is a subjective thing and that’s the problem. What is “right” in terms of a UI pattern is impossible, i.e. a button. It’s contextual, circumstantial, and subjective.
        * Josh: how our groupings are going to work/ how we’d communicate. Making sure this doesn’t just disappear for a few years again. Making sure we do follow up
