## Notes, March 02, 2023
Attendees: Una Kravets, Peter Paul Koch, Josh Lindquist

* Review Time of Meeting [possibly move to next time]
* Charter
    * Open questions:
        * How do we split out “feature sets” i.e. CSS4-Layout, CSS4-Color ++
        * These kind of groupings might be inevitable, might not be a part of the mission explicitly
    * Will there be more than just CSS4? Yes – in every conversation it’s been clear we need more than one distinction
        * Annual (CSS2020, CSS2021, ++) less effective, we’ll focus on CSS4 and CSS5 for now
        * Rename CG to CSS-Next?
* Running this group / chairing
    * Syncing with WebDX group
* Educating developers
    * Should progressive enhancement play a role in how we’re thinking about this?
    * I.e. this group of features is something we can progressively enhance vs. not
    * Keep polyfills out of the discussion
    * In scope: helping folks understand new features, out of scope: defining best practices for developers
        * Defining north star but not dictating how to implement
        * I.e. this feature exists and this is how it works, how they use it after they’re aware of it isn’t in scope
* Research
    * Need to understand the baseline of where folks are (esp. The average web developer who isn’t keeping up with web platform changes)
* Resolved on renaming the community group, as we’ll define CSS4 and CSS5 (possibly CSS-Next, CSS6)
    * Options:
        * CSS-Next
        * CSSX
        * CSS Community Definitions Group
    * AI: Open an issue for naming
* Working Mode:
    * Jitsi Meet
    * Biweekly meetings
    * Notes in GitHub (for now)
* PPK & Josh interested in co-chairing
* AI:
    * Send email to mailing list for meeting times
        * Github repo opening
        * Review the draft charter
        * Chime in on renaming discussion
