April 14, discussion with Dom and Ian of W3C
Attendees: Una, PPK, DOM, Ian Jacobs

Dom and Ian confirmed that our quickest route of success runs through the CSS WG, We should talk to CSS influencers, both within and outside the WG, and get them on board with the basic idea. 

In fact, it might be best to start this outreach now. We aren’t looking for buy-in on a specific feature set but on the entire idea of CSS4, including marketing.

The WG creates yearly CSS Snapshots; the 2021 one is at https://www.w3.org/TR/css-2021/. Although they are very useful sources for us to go through while creating the feature list, they are closely tied to individual specifications, and somewhat academic in nature, so they may be less suited for marketing and outreach. 

The WG, or individual members, could possibly oppose the use of ‘levels’, since people might think that CSS4 is the collection of all CSS specs that are at level 4. This is not the case, but it might be good to pick another naming system. Then again, levels and version numbers  are instantly understandable to everyone. CSS IV instead of CSS4? Or pick a term that is not ‘level’ or ‘version’?

We should make clear that we will not add entire specifications to the CSS4 list. Instead, we will focus on 

The WG will want to know our processes for changes to a list, and what kind of influence the WG itself will have over the final product.,

Having a charter will increase the likelihood of people from certain companies that are otherwise quite difficult joining the CG. So we will link to our charter from the W3C CG page,.
