Aug 7, 2023 | CSS4 Community Group BiWeekly
Attendees: Una Kravets  Adam Argyle Joshua Lindquist Peter-Paul Koch  Quentin 

Notes
- [Amit] Demo of card sort app
- Verbiage of card sort – is it too similar to State of CSS? Are we getting new data?
  - This survey - are the features we have considered new? CSS3? CSS4? Answer what people think
- What are we going to do with the results?
  - Goal: Categorize CSS in a way that’s more consumable 
- Do we care what people think? Is it going to affect our decision? Maybe it just shows where the gaps are
  - Characterizing it ourselves first
  - I.e. https://lindquist.dev/css4/css-sorting.html
- Didn’t go with 3/4/5 buckets bc we didnt want to confuse people with naming (weren’t solidified), maybe can do something in between
  - Need to define it to help folks categorize it
- Distinct difference bw this and baseline - where baseline focuses on last 2 browser support, this is sets of capabilities
- Definition: features that came out bw X-Y date
- If we want to define CSS4/5, need a benchmark to define it against
- Group of features 
  - Pro: helpful for education
  - Cons: issues RE: full browser support
  - Grid and logical properties – a lot of things are and aren’t supported
- What benchmark are we setting for average web developers to judge CSS against?
  - Spec-level is dangerous bc there’s always something that doesn’t quite work
  - “What should you learn next?”
    - Want to give people guidance on what they should learn next and what they should know now?
- Potential axis’ to potentially consider: Browser support Spec completion Year it hit a browser Year it hits across the major 3 Usage vibe?
- Logical properties - folks should know and use it
- CSS3 - don’t want to redefine it, there’s a specific definition
- https://lindquist.dev/css4/css-sorting.html
  - Initial image and then let users correct if they think it doesn’t fit
    - Get diff if user moved it
  - If people move things they’re not aware of – its an indicator, but ultimately up to us to review
- Browser support doesn’t have anything to do with the progression of CSS’ language
  - Bogging down this discussion - progression of CSS seems independent of browser support
- https://flackr.github.io/web-demos/mobile/scroll-drag/list.html
- Will we keep CSS3 in this view or just keep 4/5?
  - CSS3 column immutable – just to show (you can’t drag it in)
  - CSS3: Level 3 CSSWG specs
  - CSS4: ?
  - CSS5: ?
- Definitions: 1-3 sentences explaining each level
  - “Things you should learn” too broad
  - Date has a lot of considerations/points
  - Not saying 3/4/5?
    - CSS 101, 201, New Gen1, Gen 2
- Whittling down algo in our minds, the different attributes for characterization
- CSS - so much stuff its getting overwhelming for folks even if they’re experts in the field
- Curriculum levels
  - Thinking of it in terms of courses, things evolve and things get added to 101 course, but theres also more advanced techniques – curriculum levels
  - Is this useful as a concept for the card sort?
  - People lie on their resume
  - Moved away from this education numbering piece bc thats up to educational systems, normal versioning number is better - problem with CSS3 is that it hasn’t changed in 15 years so its meaningless now. If we had 4,5,6 every few years it would mean something
- CSS4 is a non-official naming, defined by us and community perception
  - If everyone thinks Grid is CSS5, do we move it to CSS5?
  - Stuff people perceive as newer than it is
  - Getting away from spec, browser support, and more toward perception - the view of most developers
  - Perception wouldn’t help folks adopt features
  - Chicken/egg problem
- Need the definition to get the data — chicken/egg problem
- People who fill in survey - are they the people who are helping us define CSS4 or are they the people who we need to reach to teach about CSS and need guidance?
  - Most of the people will be people on our knowledge level and want to help solve the problem
  - Want to address the second group
    - In the survey? Yes
  - Purpose of card sort to help us tie-break features
- Next steps
  - AI: Each of us brings a definition for CSS3, 4, 5
    - Possibly 6
    - Adam’s exploration - https://github.com/CSS-Next/css-next/pull/85/files
- Once something is in a bucket, it needs to stay in that bucket – we might need to define some hard stops (possibly dates)
- Adam’s definition of CSS6 - too broad because something that’s experimental now can be fully supported in a year, then you have to have things move buckets
- Things always end up in dates
- Don't think we should be defining 3 new versions -- CSS4 is what has been around for a while and CSS5 is inclusive of new and upcoming (experimental) things
- Decide on the cadence (3,5, etc. years between each)
- CSS4 is not "up until now", but more a few years back - i.e. 4/5 years ago
- Would that be confusing that CSS4 are things that are already old?
- General agreement this all comes back to dates, but do we expose those dates to folks filling in the research form right now?
- Is this about awareness?
- More helpful to us to have folks who are CSS experts who have opinions about CSS to take this type of survey
- Survey - purpose to identify the gaps? 
  - No - purpose is to test our hypothesis with CSS community
- How to proceed?
  - We need a definition we all agree on - for CSS4,  CSS5
  - Things we agree on:
  - Survey is to test our hypothesis
  - We need a definition as close to possible to what we actually mean
  - Dates need to be a part of this at some point
  - We are not redefining CSS3

Action items
- [ ] Amit to make card sort draggable app
- [ ] Each of us comes up with a definition
